Brief descriptions of all Warcraft predators, by ZM5.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Beasts
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worg - horse-sized wolf creatures, found in the mountains, temperate grasslands, forests and shrublands. 
Dangerous in groups. Can be used as war/hunting animals and mounts by races with access to them.

Devilsaur - gargantuan, two-legged dinosaur, found in savage tropical forests and wetlands. Will attempt to knock over buildings,
although they can be domesticated and made into mounts or war animals.

Arachnatid - large scorpion-like insect, found in the glaciers, tundras and taigas. Both their bite and their sting
can inject venom that causes necrosis. Can be made into war/hunting animals and mounts.

Jormungar - gargantuan worm-like creature, found in savage tundras, taigas and glaciers. It attacks with bites and lashing with its tail.
Its bite can inject a venom that can cause severe pain and necrosis.

Frostsaber - large, striped feline, found in tundras, taigas and glaciers. Can be trained as war/hunting animals or as mounts.
Their bites are more powerful than those of similar wildcats.

Saber Worg - relative of the worgs, found in tundras, taigas and glaciers. It is slightly larger, and its bites are stronger.
It is also more prone to enraging than regular worgs.

Scorpid - desert-dwelling scorpion-like creature. Smaller than the arachnatids, it is found in the deserts and savannas.
Its poison can cause necrosis and/or oozing.

Silithid - insectoids found in savage deserts and savannas. They have several different castes. 

Silithid Worker - most common caste, second-smallest - at full size they're only slightly bigger than most dwarves.
They have a stinger which can inject a venom that causes dizziness and blistering.

Silithid Wasp - second most common caste, is the smallest, being smaller than most dwarves. Flies, and is more prone to rage
than other silithid castes. Their venom can cause necrosis and minor bleeding.

Silithid Reaver - large silithid with vestigial wings. They lack venom attacks of any kind, instead mostly hitting hard - 
they'll also break down doors and furniture. Can be used as mounts.

Silithid Colossus - gargantuan silithid, incapable of flight. They have two arms ending in scythe-like blades and a single horn.
They'll topple any buildings they can find.

Sand Reaver - large caste with 6 legs, though not as big as the Colossus - they have a pincer at the end of their tails.
Attacks with the pincer can latch firmly onto body parts, while also injecting a venom that can cause swelling, necrosis, nausea and dizziness.
Like the Colossus, they'll topple any buildings.

Raptor - dinosaur found in savage tropical forests and wetlands - can be made into hunting/war animals and mounts.
They won't mindlessly charge full-speed into enemies, instead waiting until their target is near.

Proto Dragon - large, feral dragons with barbs at the end of their wings, found in savage tundras, taigas, glaciers and mountains.
They lack the breath attacks of the more evolved dragons.
They can be made into mounts and war animals - wild ones will attempt to topple and buildings.

Hippogryph - flying beasts with features of both stags and birds, found in savage broadleaf forests. 
They have hooves instead of rear feet, and a pair of antlers.
They do not feel fear or pain, and cannot be stunned. Can be made into war/hunting animals and mounts.

Rylak - flying, two-headed beast with horns from the savage mountains, tundras, and temperate grasslands.
Can be made into mounts.

Chimaerok - flying, two-headed beast similar to the Rylak - found in savage tropical broadleaf forests, taigas,
and tropical swamps.
They possess three unique attacks - a lightning breath that can cause melting damage and paralysis, a corrosive breath
which is a spray of acid, and can also spit a single glob of acid.

Core Hound - gargantuan, two-headed, elemental quadruped. 
Immune to fire damage, doesn't feel fear or pain, cannot be stunned and do not need to breathe.
Each head has a single horn and a pair of tusks.
They are only found deep underground and in the savage mountains. 
Attacks aimed at them have their force reduced by half.
They can also breathe a stream of magma at any enemies.

Crocolisk - six-legged crocodilian creature. Found in savage wetlands, rivers and lakes. 
Faster than regular crocodiles - they can be made into war/hunting animals.

Diemetradon - six-legged dinosaur creature. Found in savage rocky wastelands, mountains, and tropical broadleaf forests.
Can be made into war/hunting animals. They possess a sonic wave attack that can cause dizziness.

Basilisk - six-legged, armored reptile. Found underground and in savage deserts, mountains, and tropical moist broadleaf forests.
Attacks aimed at them have their force reduced by half. Crystals from their bodies can be made into crafts.
They have a blinding light attack that can cause petrifaction.

Owlcat - quadruped with features of various animals - mostly similar to felines, but also has a bird-like beak and a pair of antlers.
Found in savage tropical grasslands, savannas, and coniferous forests. Can be made into mounts and war/hunting animals.

Teroclaw - predatory bird with tusks, found in savage mountains, temperate grasslands and coniferous forests.
Can be made into war/hunting animals.

Clefthoof - large quadruped covered in far - has a nasal horn and two tusks. 
Can be trained as war/hunting animals. Civs will also use them as mounts, wagon pullers and pack animals.

Ravager - large insectoids, found in savage deserts and tropical forests. They have 3 different castes.

Standard ravagers are similar to the Silithid reavers - however, ravagers are bigger, can fly, and have a single horn.

Ravager wasps are similar to the Silithid Wasps - however they do not have venom. They also have a single horn.

Ravager crawlers are diminutive, weaker versions of the other ravagers, and lack wings or a horn - they are also more common than the others.

Thunder Lizard - massive, four-legged reptiles with a single horn. Found in savage deserts and savannas.
It can breathe a ball of lightning, or alternatively breathe a cloud of lightning that causes melting damage and paralysis.

Fire Salamander - large quadruped reptile - similar to the Thunder Lizards. Found in savage deserts and deep underground.
Instead of lightning-based attacks, they use fire - either breathing a stream of it, or spitting a single fireball.

Direhorn - large dinosaur similar to a triceratops. Found in savage tropical moist broadleaf forests, tropical swamps, and deserts.
They have three horns and a large bony club on their tail, which can be used for attacks.
Their hide is also tough, being on a similar level as bronze - can make for good armor.
Can be trained as mounts or war animals.

Pterrordax - large reptilian flier - can be trained as a war animal or a mount. Found in savage tropical swamps and tropical moist broadleaf forests.
They will occasionally use a headbutt attack that can potentially cause serious internal damage.

Skyscreamer - large reptilian flier - found in savage mountains, tropical swamps, and tropical moist broadleaf forests.
They have spikes at the ends of their wings, similarly to the proto dragons. Like the Pterrordax, they can be trained as
war animals or as mounts, and also have a deadly headbutt attack.

Wind Serpent - a snake-like reptile with wings and feathers, found in savage shrublands, deserts and savannas. 
Can be trained as a war or hunting animal.
They have a lightning breath attack similar to the thunder lizards.

Dragonhawk - flying creature with the features of a hawk, a dragon, and a serpent. Found in savage temperate forests and grasslands.
Can be trained as either war or hunting animals, and as mounts.
They have a fire breath attack that acts more like a super-heated gas than actual fire - it still causes melting damage, however.

Couatl - flying, amphibious serpent with feathers. Found in savage tropical wetlands, lakes and oceans.
Can be trained as war/hunting animals - they also have a venomous bite that can cause dizziness, nausea and severe necrosis.

Snap Dragon - amphibious, quadruped reptile. Found in savage tropical wetlands, lakes, oceans and rivers.
Trainable as war or hunting animals. They have an acidic spit attack that can cause blisters and bleeding.

Nether Ray - flying stingray-like creature, found in savage tropical marshes, and coniferous forests.
They can be used as mounts or war/hunting animals.
They have a venomous sting that can cause short-term paralysis and nausea.

Warp Stalker - lizard-like creature with horns and a three-pronged tail. Found in savage temperate forests and grasslands.
Can be trained as war/hunting animals.
They have a unique Time Warp ability that increases their speed by 800% for a short period of time - this can make them appear as 
though they zip around the map.

Mana Wyrm - small, flying snake-like creature. Found in savage temperate forests and temperate grasslands.
Can be trained as hunting animals.
They can use an Energy Drain attack that reduces endurance and strength, and causes dizziness.

Three-Headed Hydra - large, amphibious, two-legged reptilian creature, found in savage tropical forests, lakes and oceans.
Can be trained as war/hunting animals. 
They are slow, but have an acidic spit attack - their bites can also target multiple body parts at once.

Wyvern - large quadruped flier with a stinger. Found in savage mountains, deserts, and tropical savannas.
Can be used as mounts or war/hunting animals.
Their venom can cause oozing, a fever, and/or severe necrosis.

Spore Bat - medium-sized flying creature, found in savage wetlands. Can be trained as hunting animals.
They can release a cloud of spores that cause dizziness in those nearby.
They cannot bite or scratch, but instead use tackles, headbutts and swipes with their tentacle-like tails
that can latch firmly onto attacked body parts.

Spore Walker - large tripod creature. Found in savage wetlands.
Can be trained as hunting animals. 
They have a melee "shock" attack that can cause edged damage, potentially severing limbs - even if it doesnt, it can
cause pain and paralysis.

Rock Borer - worm-like creature found underground. Can be trained as war animals or hunting.
They attack with bites and tail lashes - additionally, they can also spit acid.

Elekk - elephant-like creatures from savage grasslands, shrublands and savannas. Can be trained as mounts and war animals.
They come in two variants - standard elekks have two horns and two tusks. 
A rarer variant, the Grand Elekk, has four tusks and seven horns - they are also more prone to rage and their head is covered
with a layer of stone, offering some level of protection.

Riverbeast - a hippo-like beast found in savage tropical lakes and rivers. Can be trained as war animals.
They have two tusks and a tail club. Their head, tail, tail club and upper body are all covered with a layer
of stone, adding protection and also making their club blows more damaging.

Quilbeast - medium-sized boar-like beast found in savage deserts, savannas, grasslands and shrublands.
Can be trained as war/hunting animals. Very prone to rage.

Falcosaur - medium-sized creature appearing as a cross between a raptor and a bird. They have a beak and feathers.
Found in savage tropical forests and grasslands. Can be made into war/hunting animals and mounts.

Faerie Dragon - small, flying lizard-like creature, found in good grasslands and forests.
They can use Mana Burn, causing bleeding and dizziness. Can be trained as hunting animals.

Quilen - large quadruped beasts, found in savage savannas and grasslands. Can be trained as mounts and war/hunting animals.

They do not feel fear. Quilen have two varieties - regular flesh-and-blood Quilen, and stone Quilen which are more resistant to damage and hit harder.

Mushan - large quadruped reptile, similarly sized to the Kodos and Thunder Lizards. Found in savage grasslands and savannas.

Some races may use them as wagon pullers, mounts, war animals or pack animals.

Kunchong - gigantic insectoid creature, rarely found in savage grasslands and savannas.

They are similar in terms of build to the Silithid Colossus - they lack horns, however, and have wings that allow them to fly.

They do not feel fear, and can be trained as war animals.

Cloud Serpent - flying serpent with two pairs of horns, found in the savage mountains, grasslands and savannas. Doesn't require wings to fly.

They can be trained as mounts and war/hunting animals.

Their bites are infused with electricity and may cause paralysis and large amounts of pain.

Mountain Gryphon - flying quadrupeds with the lower body of a lion and the front legs and head of an eagle. They are only found in the mountains.

They do not feel fear, and are slightly bigger than horses - they mostly attack with beak bites and scratches.

Wolfhawk - flying creatures, resembling wolves with the wings of a hawk at their forelegs.

They are rare, and found only in savage temperate grasslands, forests and shrublands.

They are a similar size to horses, and attack with bites and scratches. Goods made from their body parts have a x6 value multiplier.

Panthara - large, feline predators, found in savage deserts, forests and savannas. 

They have bony ridges on their backs and four frills around their neck. 

A layer of rocky plates covers most of their body, offering some amount of protection.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals and used as mounts.

Mana Ray - flying, stingray-like creatures found in savage deserts, savannas and forests.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals, and also can be used as mounts.

They are capable of using an Energy Drain attack to induce dizziness in their foes.

Dragon Turtle - vicious turtles with horns, neck frills and armored heads, tails and feet.
Found in savage temperate and tropical oceans, savannas and grasslands.

They are trainable as hunting/war animals, and some races may also use them as mounts and pack animals.

They can spit chunks of rock as a ranged attack.

Tidal Guardian - amphibious serpents found in savage oceans.

They can spit balls of lightning at their foes.

Jag Hund - dog-like beasts found in savage mountains, taigas and temperate coniferous forests.
They do not feel fear and can be trained as war/hunting animals.

Storm Dragon - lesser dragons, found in savage mountains and temperate shrublands.
They can breathe clouds of lightning, spit ball lightning or spit liquid lightning.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals, and they dont feel fear.

Carrion Beetle - small insectoid monsters found in evil glaciers, temperate forests, taigas and tundras.

They often appear in large swarms, and do not feel fear or pain. They can fly and also utilize their horns for
attacks.

Blood Bat - giant, blood-sucking bats, found in the savage forests. 
They are trainable for war/hunting and can be utilized as flying mounts by some races.

Carrion Recluse - giant, hairy spiders, found in temperate coniferous forests,
temperate grasslands, temperate wetlands, and taigas.

Their bites can cause swelling, drowsiness and coughing blood, and they can spray strands of webbing.

Jungle Spider - giant, spindly spiders, found in tropical broadleaf forests.

Their bites can cause necrosis, a fever, and vomiting blood. They too are capable of spraying strands of webbing.

Nightsaber - saber cats, related to the Frostsabers, though nowhere near as long-lived.

They can be found in the tropical forests, and can be utilized as war/hunting animals or as mounts.

Kaliri - medium-sized, brightly coloured birds, found in the mountains and tropical forests.

They do not feel fear and are war/hunting trainable.

Dread Raven - large bird-like creatures, found in the mountains and tropical forests. They don't feel fear.

They are trainable as war/hunting animals, and some races may utilize them as mounts.

Wooly Rhino - relatives of the rhinos found in the tundras, taigas and glaciers.

They are usable as mounts and war/hunting animals. They are also more aggressive and prone to rage
than normal rhinos - as their name suggests, they have a wooly coat which can be sheared away and made into clothing.

Frost Serpent - large, serpentine creatures found in the tundras, taigas and glaciers.

They have spikes along their body and a pair of curving horns.

They do not feel fear, and can breathe a cloud of frost.

Manasaber - magic-infused saber cats, found in savage temperate forests. 

They are trainable as war/hunting animals and mounts.

While otherwise similar to other saber cats, their bites are infused with magic and can cause drowsiness and blistering.

Arcane Hippogryph - magic-infused hippogryphs, found in good broadleaf forests.

They are capable of using Moonfire to decimate their foes, but are otherwise the same as their non-arcane counterparts.

Fathom Dweller - flying, jellyfish-like monsters found in evil oceans, lakes, and temperate coniferous forests.

They do not feel fear or pain and cannot be stunned - they also can be used as mounts by some races.

Sand Worm - gargantuan worms found in the savage deserts. They are war/hunting trainable, and may
occasionally be used as mounts by some races.

Their bites can spatter acid over the wounds they create - they are also capable of just spitting the same acid at a range.

Fungal Whale - gargantuan whale-like beings that also bear a resemblance to the Fungal Giants. Found in savage oceans.

They can release a cloud of spores that causes dizziness and drowsiness.

Barramunda - air-breathing, aggressive fish found near savage lakes and rivers.

They have a tough beak used for biting attacks, and are slightly smaller than dwarves in terms of size.

Threshadon - long-necked aquatic reptiles, found in savage lakes.

They attack with bites, and goods made out of their body parts have their value increased sevenfold.

Arcane Wyrm - serpentine fliers, found in savage glaciers, tundras and taigas.

Their bites have a similar effect as Manasabers, and they can cast Energy Drain.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humanoids
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jungle Stalker - large, horned humanoid from savage tropical forests.

They are relatively rare but will attempt to topple any buildings. Additionally, they wait until a creature is nearby before charging.

Rock Flayer - primitive humanoids with a stinger and four arms, ending in scythe-like blades. Found in savage mountains, rocky wastelands, badlands, and underground.

They are very prone to rage, however they also will not charge until an enemy creature is nearby.

Fungal Giant - massive humanoids found in savage wetlands.

They have tendrils instead of fingers, three hearts, and four eyes.

They cannot scratch or bite, but instead can lash with their tendrils, potentially latching onto the targetted limb.

Additionally they can release a cloud of spores, which can cause nausea, dizziness, and drowsiness.

Skardyn - cursed dwarves with scales instead of skin, found deep underground.

They act as a tougher version if the subterranean animal people, using metal weapons and equipment similar to that of normal dwarves.

Like regular dwarves, they can potentially enter martial trances when outnumbered.

Crystalline Tenders - crystal humanoids found in savage glaciers, tundras and taigas.

They do not feel fear or pain, and do not need to breathe.

They have two varieties - Crystal Dryads and Crystal Satyrs. 

Crystal Satyrs are bipedal and have horns, whereas Crystal Dryads are centauroids.

Due to being made of crystal, they are tougher to damage and hit harder - additionally, they do not bleed
and require severe damage to the head, upper body or lower body to be killed.

Grell - small fey humanoids from savage forests. 

They are somewhat rare, but usually appear in large groups.

They will attempt to pull levers and steal items, food or booze.

Withered - mutated Nightborne found in tropical forests.

Fairly unremarkable combat-wise - they have a Drain Energy attack that reduces endurance to 50% and causes dizziness.

Bog Beast - ambulatory plant creatures found in the wetlands.

Very prone to raging, they are rather strong due to their size. 
Otherwise they do not have innate combat abilities or special attacks.

Fungal Monster - humanoid plant monster, found in savage wetlands.

Larger than the bog beasts, they can release spores that cause nausea and vomiting blood - rarely, they may also cause the lungs to rot.

Wildkin - humanoid creature with features of owls, bears, and the antlers of a stag.
Found in savage savannas, deserts, taigas and tropical forests.

They do not possess unique abilities - due to their size, however, they can still hit hard.

Gilgoblin - amphibious, mutated goblins. 

They are found in oceans and lakes. Capable of swimming faster than most other creatures.

They will attempt to steal items, food or booze.

Goren - underground humanoids. They have a layer of stone over their tail, lower arms, neck, head, upper and lower body.

Although most are smaller than dwarves, some can grow to gigantic sizes given enough years in the world.

Their bites can cause acid to spatter over the wound - on top of that they can also spit acid from a distance.

Mistlurker - one-eyed elemental humanoids found in savage swamps.

Similarly to the fungal giants, they have tendrils instead of fingers - their lash attacks can latch onto the targetted body part.

They dissipate into mist on death, leaving nothing behind.

Virmen - bunny-like skulking race, found in caves.

They are a somewhat stronger version of vanilla Kobolds - however the Virmen are larger, and use more varied weaponry and armor.

Thorn Sprite - small humanoids made out of thorny vines and wood. Found in savage forests.

They are mischievous and will pull levers in fortresses. They also do not feel fear or pain, cannot be stunned
and dont need to breathe. They are also more prone to entering an enraged state.

Mantaxx - four-legged mantis-like creatures, found in savage deserts and tropical forests.

They do not feel fear, and also wont charge until their prey is up close.

They have sharp scythes used for deadly slashing attacks.

Giant Yeti -  massive ape-like humanoids, found uncommonly in the savage glaciers, tundras, and taigas.

They have a pair of horns, and will attempt to topple buildings.

Dire Yeti - another type of Yeti, found in the savage temperate grasslands, savannas and mountains.

They are smaller than the Giant Yetis, but will still topple buildings and still have a pair of horns.

They may occasionally be kept as mounts by certain races.

Wendigo - horned humanoids found in savage glaciers, tundras and taigas.

They are fairly aggressive, and will topple buildings or steal food or trinkets.

Wendigo have two variations - standard Wendigo, who are just bruisers, and Wendigo Shamans, who are much more rare
and can speak - additionally, they can cast Frost Shock and Regrowth.

Horned Sasquatch - relatives of the Wendigos, found in savage forests.

They share similar characteristics as the Wendigos.

The Sasquatch Oracles, like the Wendigo Shamans, are capable of speech - additionally, instead of Frost Shock, they will cast Mark of the Wild on their fellow Sasquatches.

Snobold - arctic relatives of the kobolds, found in caves.

They act similarly to their relatives, and will similarly send out thieves to your fortress.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Demons
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Observer - flying squid-like demon with seven eyes and ten tentacles, found underground and in evil biomes.

They can lash with their tentacles and tongues, and also have three types of beam attacks - a pain beam that
has a 50% chance of causing debilitating pain, a blinding beam that has a 50% chance of inducing blindness,
and a deathly beam that can cause necrosis, vomiting blood and a fever.

Felhound - vaguely canine demon. It lacks eyes and has two tentacles tipped with sucker mouths. Found in evil savannas, deserts, and forests.

It can use both an Energy Drain attack similar to that of the Withered, and a Mana Burn similar to that of the Faerie Dragon.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals.

Felstalker - canid demon similar to the Felhound, although larger and lacking the tentacle-like protrusions.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals and mounts.

Helboar - spiky, corrupted boars found in evil deserts, shrublands and savannas. Can be trained as war/hunting animals.

They are a lot more prone to rage than most other creatures.

Darkhound - corrupted wolves found in taigas, temperate forests, grasslands and shrublands. Trainable as war/hunting animals.

Some of the more common creatures in said biomes - they never show up alone. Also more prone to rage than most other creatures.

Felbat - flying, vaguely humanoid demons. Found in evil deserts, savannas, and forests.

They may occasionally be used as mounts by evil races.

Felsteed - demonic horses found in evil deserts, mountains, and temperate savannas and grasslands.

Evil races may occasionally use them as mounts. They are a lot more aggressive than other horse-like animals.

Dreadsteed - demonic horses, found in the deepest underground layer and in evil deserts.

They have seven horns and six spike-like growths. 

Evil races may occasionally use them as mounts or pack animals.

Vilefiend - humanoid, lizard-like demons with metallic blades on their chin and the top of their head. Found in evil deserts, savannas and forests.

Their blood is acidic, which adds danger to fighting them up close. They can use their metallic head blades for slashing attacks as well.

They can be used as mounts, and can be trained as war or hunting animals.

Ur'zul - demonic amalgamations, found in evil deserts, savannas and forests.

They have five heads and walk on four legs. They do not feel fear and cannot be stunned.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals and also be used as mounts.

Infernal Hound - evolved felhounds, with a vaguely humanoid appearance and horned skulls for heads.

They come in two variations - Charhounds and Gloomhounds.

Charhounds utilize fire attacks, and can breathe a jet of fire, spit a fireball or spit a bolt of magma.

Gloomhounds use shadow magic, and can hurl Shadow bolts as projectiles, or use Mana Burn or Wither to debilitate their enemies.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals, and can also be used as mounts.

Felsaber - demonically corrupted saber cats, found in evil deserts, savannas and forests. 

They are similar to the Frostsabers, with the main difference being that they have a skull for a head.
They also do not feel fear.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals, and used as mounts.

Darkglare - floating, squid-like demons with a single eye. Found in any evil biome.

They can fire fel bolts to cause strong blunt damage, or release a Searing Beam that can cause bleeding, pain and blisters.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Undead - they have most of the advantages that vanilla DF undead have.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Feral Ghoul - undead humanoids, found in any evil biome and underground.

They are never found alone, and mostly attack with scratches.

If their bites or scratches tear the skin, they can cause liquid rot to spatter over the wound, which can cause nausea, necrosis and blistering.

Frostwyrm - massive, skeletal blue dragons, found in evil taigas, tundras, glaciers, and temperate coniferous forests.

They have similar frost breath attacks as the blue dragons. They can also use Frost Shock, causing pain, blistering, and lowering the speed of the target.

They can be trained as war/hunting animals and also as mounts - evil races may very rarely use them.

Plague-dog - large, quadruped construct, found in evil biomes.

They have metallic plates on their heads that may occasionally protect from attacks. 

They can also spew necrotic sludge that can cause nausea and severe necrosis. Trainable as war/hunting animals and mounts.

Gargoyle - flying, bat-like undead. Found in any evil biome.

They do not feel pain, and can be made into pets.

A protective layer of stone covers most of their bodies, making them tougher to damage and also making their attacks hit harder.

Bone Spider - spider-like creatures that are undead from birth, with bony legs and spikes on their abdomens.

They do not feel fear or pain. Their bites can cause dizziness and strong necrosis. Like the other spiders, they can spray webbing -
however, they also can spit a glob of their own poison, causing the same syndrome as their bites.

Dirt Eater - medium-sized undead that resemble ghouls. Found underground and in any evil biome.

Unlike most other undead, they are fairly docile and aren't immediately hostile to the living.

When provoked they are quite strong however, and can hurl boulders to cause strong blunt damage.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fleshfiend - small creatures with no eyes, found in evil biomes.

They have similar advantages to the undead - do not require eating, drinking, do not feel pain or fear, etc.

They are nearly 1/3 the size of a dwarf, however they almost never appear alone - along with being unable to be debilitated, this can make them difficult for unarmed or non-military dwarves.

Treant - humanoid, wooden guardians found in the forests. 

They do not need to breathe, eat, drink or sleep, cannot feel pain, cannot be stunned and cannot be made nauseous.

Due to being made out of wood, they can do more damage with their attacks and also aren't as easy to damage.

They will not attack any natural wildlife.

Fungal Horror - amphibious plant monsters, found in evil wetlands, rivers, lakes, and pools.

They do not feel fear or pain, cannot be stunned and will not be overexerted. They also do not require eyes to see.

They can release spores that can cause nausea, vomiting blood, coughing up blood, and rarely bleeding from the lungs.

Their only attacks consist of lashes or stabs with their many tentacles.

Corrupted Treant - corrupted versions of Treants, hostile to all life.

They can release noxious fumes that can cause a fever, necrosis of the lungs, nausea, and dizziness.

Additionally, their claws and teeth are covered with sludge that will spatter over the wounds. This can cause necrosis, dizziness and vomiting blood.

Mandragora - three-headed, eyeless plant monsters found in savage tropical broadleaf forests.

They do not feel fear or pain, and cannot be stunned.

They can spit toxic slime that can cause oozing, blistering and necrosis. 
They also can breathe a cloud of poison that can cause a fever, dizziness and erratic behavior.

Sha - manifestations of negative emotions found in evil biomes. They come in two varieties.

Both do not feel fear or pain, cannot be made feverish, nauseous or dizzy, cannot be stunned or blinded, 
do not need to eat, drink or sleep and do not require connections for full movement.

Lesser Sha appear similar to fleshfiends, only much bigger. They mostly attack with bites.

Regular Sha are more like flying torsos with large claws and fangs. They can use a "possession" attack that can
cause the affected creature to lash out at other nearby creatures, and potentially spread the infection to others.

On death, they turn into a puddle of sludge that can cause pain, vomiting blood, and erratic behavior if stepped on or ingested.

Merciless One - flying, amphibious squid-like aberrations found in evil oceans, lakes, and grasslands.

They only have one eye, and a maw full of sharp teeth. They are also intelligent and capable of speech.

They can use Anguish and Maddening Whispers, potentially driving the affected creature into a crazed state.

Sludge Monstrosity - large, simple-minded, amorphous blobs found in evil biomes.

Their bites can produce an effect similar to the Slow spells utilized by various creatures.

Lasher - elemental plant creatures that resembles large, ambulatory flowers, found in savage forests and wetlands.

They do not feel fear or pain and cannot be stunned or overexerted.

They mostly attack by lashing with their thorny vines - they are also capable of a slow but very strong tackle attack.

Pine Devil - corrupted treants from the evil taigas. They walk on four roots and have two elongated branches that act as arms.
They overall resemble trees more than the normal treants who have a more humanoid build.

They are very large, and do not feel fear or pain and cannot be overexerted. They attack with punches, scratches and bites.